.\"/*
.\" * FCRON - periodic command scheduler 
.\" *
.\" *  Copyright 2000-2002 Thibault Godouet <fcron@free.fr>
.\" *
.\" *  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" *  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" *  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" *  (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" *  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" *  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" *  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" *  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" * 
.\" *  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" *  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" *  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
.\" * 
.\" *  The GNU General Public License can also be found in the file
.\" *  `LICENSE' that comes with the fcron source distribution.
.\" */
.\"
.\" /* $Id: fcron.conf.5,v 1.1 2002/01/03 14:28:00 thib Exp thib $ */
.TH FCRON.CONF 5 "12/25/2001" "fcron version 2.1.0"

.SH NAME
fcron.conf \- configuration file for fcron and fcrontab

.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the syntax used for the configuration file of 
.BR fcron "(8) and " fcrontab "(1)."
.PP
Blank lines, line beginning by a pound-sign (#) (which are considered
comments), leading blanks and tabs are ignored. Each line in a fcron.conf file
is of the form
.PP
    name = value
.PP 
where the blanks around equal-sign (=) are ignored and optional. Trailing
blanks are also ignored.
.PP
The following names are recognized (default value in brackets) :

.RS 2
.TP 12
.B fcrontabs
.IR directory " (/var/spool/fcron)"
.br
Fcron spool directory.
.TP
.B pidfile
.IR file-path " (/var/run/fcron.pid)"
.br
Location of fcron pid file (needed by fcrontab to work properly).
.TP
.B fcronallow
.IR file-path " (/etc/fcron.allow)"
.br
Location of fcron.allow file.
.TP
.B fcrondeny
.IR file-path " (/etc/fcron.deny)"
.br
Location of fcron.deny file.
.TP
.B shell
.IR file-path " (/bin/sh)"
.br
Location of default shell called by fcron when running a job.
.TP
.B sendmail
.IR file-path " (/usr/lib/sendmail)"
.br
Location of mailer program called by fcron to send job output.
.TP
.B editor
.IR file-path " (/bin/vi)"
.br
Location of default editor used when invoking "fcrontab -e".
.RE
.PP
File-paths and directories are complete and absolute (i.e. beginning by a "/").
.PP
To run several instances of fcron simultaneously on the same system, you must
use a different configuration file for each instance. Each instance must
have a different
.BR fcrontabs " and " pidfile "."
.RB "Then, use " fcrontab "(1) and " fcron "(8)'s command line option"
.IR "-c" " to select which config file (so which instance) you refer to."

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/fcron.conf
Default location for the configuration file of fcron and fcrontab.
.TP
.I /etc/fcron.allow
Users allowed to use fcrontab (one name per line, special name "all"
acts for everyone)
.TP
.I /etc/fcron.deny
Users who are not allowed to use fcrontab (same format as allow file)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fcron "(8),"
.BR fcrontab "(1),"
.BR fcrontab "(5)."

.SH AUTHOR
Thibault Godouet <fcron@free.fr>
