.\"/*
.\" * FCRON - periodic command scheduler 
.\" *
.\" *  Copyright 2000-2002 Thibault Godouet <fcron@free.fr>
.\" *
.\" *  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" *  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" *  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" *  (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" *  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" *  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" *  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" *  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" * 
.\" *  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" *  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" *  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
.\" * 
.\" *  The GNU General Public License can also be found in the file
.\" *  `LICENSE' that comes with the fcron source distribution.
.\" */
.\"
.\" /* $Id: fcron.8,v 1.1 2002/01/03 14:27:59 thib Exp thib $ */
.TH FCRON 8 "12/25/2001" "fcron version 2.1.0"

.SH NAME
fcron \- daemon to execute scheduled commands

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fcron
.RI "[" "-d" "] [" "-f" "] [" "-b" "] [" "-s" " " "t" "] [" "-m" " " "n" "]"
.RI "[" "-c" " " "f" "]"
.br
.B fcron
.RI "[" "-n" " " "d" "]"
.br
.B fcron
.RI "[" "-h" "]"
.br
.B fcron
.RI "[" "-V" "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Fcron should be started from 
.B /etc/rc
or
.B /etc/rc.local.
Unless the 
.IR "-f " "(or " "--foreground" ")"
option is given, it will return immediately, so you don't need to start it
with '&'.
.PP
Fcron loads users fcrontabs (see
.BR fcrontab (5) "" ")"
files previously installed by fcrontab (see 
.BR fcrontab (1) "" ")."
Then, fcron calculates the time and date of each job's next execution,
and determines how long it has to sleep, and sleeps for this amount of time.
When it wakes up, it checks all jobs loaded and runs them if needed.
When a job is executed, fcron forks, changes its user and group permissions
to match those of the user the job is being done for, executes that job and
mails the outputs to the user (this can be changed : see 
.BR fcrontab (5) "" ")."
.PP
Informative message about what fcron is doing are sent to 
.BR syslogd (8) " " "under facility " cron ", priority " notice "."
Warning and error messages are sent respectively at priority 
.BR warning " and " error "."
.PP
Note that fcron sleeps at least 20 seconds after it has been
started before executing a job to avoid to use too much resources during
system boot.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f --foreground
Don't fork to the background. In this mode, fcron will output informational
message to standard error as well as to syslogd.
.TP
.B -b --background
Force running in background, even if fcron has been compiled to run in
foreground as default.
.TP
.B -s t --savetime t
Save fcrontabs on disk every t sec (default is 1800).
.TP
.B -m n --maxserial n
Set to n the maximum number of serial jobs which can run simultaneously.
By default, this value is set to 1.
.br
.IR "see also" " :"
.RB "option" " serial" " in " "fcrontab" "(5)."
.TP
.B -c f --configfile f
Make fcron use config file f instead of default config file
/etc/fcron.conf. To interact with that running fcron process, fcrontab
must use the same config file (which is defined by fcrontab's option -c). That
way, several fcron processes can run simultaneously on an only system
(but each fcron process *must* have a different spool dir and pid file from
the other processes).
.TP
.B -n d --newspooldir d
Create d as a new spool directory for fcron. Set correctly its mode and owner.
Then, exit.
.TP
.B -h --help
Display a brief description of the options.
.TP
.B -V --version
Display an informational message about fcron, including its version
and the license under which it is distributed.
.TP
.B -d --debug
Run in debug mode (more details on stderr (if option -f is set)
and in log file)

.SH RETURN VALUES
Fcron returns 0 on normal exit, and 1 on error.

.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Save configuration (time remaining until next execution, time and date
of next execution, etc), wait for all running jobs and exit.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Force fcron to reload its configuration.
.TP
.B SIGUSR2
Make fcron print its current schedule on syslog.
.br
It also toggles on/off the printing on debug info on syslog.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Tell fcron to check if there is any configuration update (this signal is
used by
.BR fcrontab (5) "" )

.SH CONFORMING TO
Should be POSIX compliant. 

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/fcron.conf
Configuration file for fcron and fcrontab : contains paths (spool dir,
pid file) and default programs to use (editor, shell, etc).
.RB "See " fcron.conf "(5) for more details."
.TP
.I /etc/fcron.allow
Users allowed to use fcrontab (one name per line, special name "all"
acts for everyone)
.TP
.I /etc/fcron.deny
Users who are not allowed to use fcrontab (same format as allow file)
.TP
.IR /etc/pam.d/fcron " (or " /etc/pam.conf ")"
PAM configuration file for fcron. Take a look at
.BR pam "(8) for more details."

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fcron.conf "(5),"
.BR fcrontab "(1),"
.BR fcrontab "(5)."

.SH AUTHOR
Thibault Godouet <fcron@free.fr>
